---
id: s3g4
title: Merging a pull request.
sidebar_label: Merging a pull request.
---

After you're happy with the proposed changes, you can merge the pull request.

If you're working in a shared repository model, the proposed changes will be merged from the head branch to the base branch that was specified in the pull request.

---


There are a few ways to do PR merge.

**First**, you can use GitHub's **"Merge pull request"** button at the bottom of your pull request to merge your changes.

This is only available when GitHub can detect that there will be no merge conflicts with the base branch.

If all goes well, you just have to add a commit message and click on **"Confirm Merge"** to merge the changes.


**Second** way is to perform merge locally.

Usually it's necessary when your branch has a conflicts.
I'm personally wouldn't advise to merge PR locally.
It better to fix merge conflict and commit/push that fix to GitHub repository back.

So this changes will appears at PR history.
There a lot of reasons for doing it.

For small projects it might be not important, but if you have 5+ people at team - better to work on default workflow and not invent a wheel.

----

You can merge a pull request if you have write (or admin) permission on the project.

Anyone with write permission on the repository can merge a pull request, including the person who opened it(if you have write or maintainer access).

This flexibility allows different teams to have different approaches to using GitHub repositories and Pull Requests.

If your team requires stricter control, consider using branch permissions to restrict who can merge a pull request to particular users or groups.

You might also want to consider using special workflow with PR. it can be done with repository advanced settings.



At next slides we'll talk about merging process more.
