---
id: s4s8m15
title: Resolving merge conflicts using CLI
sidebar_label: Resolving merge conflicts using CLI
---

<!-- ## Resolving a merge conflict using the command line -->

I'll repeat myself:

#### You can resolve merge conflicts using the command line and a text editor.

Merge conflicts occur when competing changes are made to the same line of a file, or when one person edits a file and another person deletes the same file.


#### 1. Competing line change merge conflicts

To resolve a merge conflict caused by competing line changes, you must choose which changes to incorporate from the different branches in a new commit.

For example, if you and another person both edited the file `styleguide.md` on the same lines in different branches of the same Git repository, you'll get a merge conflict error when you try to merge these branches.

You must resolve this merge conflict with a new commit before you can merge these branches.

1. Open the terminal.

---

2. Navigate into the local Git repository that has the merge conflict.

`$ cd REPOSITORY-NAME`

---

3. Generate a list of the files affected by the merge conflict. In this example, the file `styleguide.md` has a merge conflict.

`$ git status`

```
> # On branch branch-b
> # You have unmerged paths.
> #   (fix conflicts and run "git commit")
> #
> # Unmerged paths:
> #   (use "git add ..." to mark resolution)
> #
> # both modified:      styleguide.md
> #
> no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

---

4. Open your favorite text editor, such as Atom, and navigate to the file that has merge conflicts.

---

5. To see the beginning of the merge conflict in your file, search the file for the conflict marker `<<<<<<<`.

When you open the file in your text editor, you'll see the changes from the HEAD or base branch after the line `<<<<<<< HEAD`.

Next, you'll see `=======`, which divides your changes from the changes in the other branch, followed by `>>>>>>> BRANCH-NAME`.

In this example, one person wrote "open an issue" in the `base` or `HEAD` branch and another person wrote `"ask your question in IRC"` in the `compare branch` or `branch-a`.

```
If you have questions, please
<<<<<<< HEAD
open an issue
=======
ask your question in IRC.
>>>>>>> branch-a
```

---

6. Decide if you want to keep only your branch's changes, keep only the other branch's changes, or make a brand new change, which may incorporate changes from both branches.

Delete the conflict markers ``<<<<<<<``, ``=======``, ``>>>>>>>`` and make the changes you want in the final merge. In this example, both changes are incorporated into the final merge:

If you have questions, please open an issue or ask in our IRC channel if it's more urgent.

---

7. Add or stage your changes.

`$ git add .`

8. Commit your changes with a comment.

`$ git commit -m "Resolved merge conflict by incorporating both suggestions."`


You can now merge the branches on the command line or push your changes to your remote repository on GitHub and merge your changes in a pull request.
