Squash, Rebase, and Cherry Pick
In long standing branches, merging can often cause lots problems when updating if changes in a given branch conflict with changes recently merged into the master branch. If there are many commits to the same file, git merge may force you to fix the same merge conflicts over and over again, causing a real headache. While there are many ways to mitigate this issue, such as enabling git rerere to reuse recorded resolution of conflict merges, squashing a series of related changes into 1 commit and cherry-picking it into the master is a great solution, especially for topic branches and isolated features.

There are several advantages of performing merges this way. First, you only have to deal with merge conflicts once, since all commits are compressed into 1. Second, each commit represents an entire set of changes required for a feature or task, which makes it easy to pin point bugs and other problems when they arise and to remove a change set when it's no longer necessary.

There are also disadvantages of squashing commits. First, you will lose the details and information for each change, as all changes squashed are compressed together. So the net effect is the same. Second, it can be dangerous and problematic if used incorrectly, such as squashing commits that have been pushed to the remote server and others depend on for their work. Because squashing is changing the git history, you can cause many conflicts that way. However, if you are using this locally or you are the only person working on your branch and you know exactly what you are doing.
