- https://help.github.com/en/articles/requesting-a-pull-request-review

Requesting a pull request review
After you create a pull request, you can ask a specific person to review the changes you've proposed.
If you're an organization member, you can also request a specific team to review your changes.

Repository owners and collaborators can request a pull request review from anyone with read access to the repository.
Organization members can also request a pull request review from teams with read access to the repository.
The requested reviewer or team will receive a notification that you asked them to review the pull request.

**Note: Pull request authors can't request reviews unless they are either a repository owner or collaborator with write access to the repository.**

You can request a review from either a suggested or specific person.
Suggested reviewers are based on git blame data.
If you request a review, other people with read access to the repository can still review your pull request.
Once someone has reviewed your pull request and you've made the necessary changes, you can re-request review from the same reviewer.
If the requested reviewer does not submit a review, and the pull request meets the repository's mergeability requirements, you can still merge the pull request.

Under your repository name, click  Pull requests.

Issues and pull requests tab selection

In the list of pull requests, click the pull request that you'd like to ask a specific person or a team to review.

Navigate to Reviewers in the right sidebar.

To request a review from a suggested person under Reviewers, next to their username, click Request.

Reviewers request icon in the right sidebar

Optionally, to request a review from someone other than a suggested person, click Reviewers, then click on a name in the dropdown menu.

Reviewers gear icon in the right sidebar

Optionally, if you know the name of the person or team you'd like a review from, click Reviewers, then type the username of the person or the name of the team you're asking to review your changes.
Click their team name or username to request a review.

Field to enter a reviewer's username and drop-down with reviewer's name

After your pull request is reviewed and you've made the necessary changes, you can ask a reviewer to re-review your pull request.
Navigate to Reviewers in the right sidebar and click  next to the reviewer's name whose review you'd like.

Re-review sync icon in the right sidebar

---
---

- https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork

- https://help.github.com/en/articles/changing-the-base-branch-of-a-pull-request


- https://help.github.com/en/articles/reviewing-proposed-changes-in-a-pull-request

Reviewing proposed changes in a pull request
In a pull request, you can review and discuss commits, changed files, and the differences (or "diff") between the files in the base and compare branches.

In this article
About reviewing pull requests
Starting a review
Marking a file as viewed
Submitting your review

#### About reviewing pull requests

You can review changes in a pull request one file at a time.
While reviewing the files in a pull request, you can leave individual comments on specific changes.
After you finish reviewing each file, you can mark the file as viewed.
This collapses the file, helping you identify the files you still need to review.
A progress bar in the pull request header shows the number of files you've viewed.
After reviewing as many files as you want, you can approve the pull request or request additional changes by submitting your review with a summary comment.

**Tip: You can find a pull request where you or a team you're a member of is requested for review with the search qualifier review-requested:[USERNAME] or team-review-requested:[TEAMNAME].
For more information, see "Searching issues and pull requests."**

Starting a review
Under your repository name, click  Pull requests.

Issues and pull requests tab selection
In the list of pull requests, click the pull request you'd like to review.

On the pull request, click  Files changed.

Files Changed tab
Hover over the line of code where you'd like to add a comment, and click the blue comment icon.

Blue comment icon
In the comment field, type your comment.

Comment field
Optionally, to suggest a specific change to the line, click , then edit the text within the suggestion block.

Suggestion block
When you're done, click Start a review.
If you have already started a review, you can click Add review comment.

Start a review button

Before you submit your review, your line comments are pending and only visible to you.
You can edit pending comments anytime before you submit your review.
To cancel a pending review, including all of its pending comments, scroll down to the end of the timeline on the Conversation tab, then click Cancel review.


Cancel review button

Marking a file as viewed
After you finish reviewing a file, you can mark the file as viewed, and the file will collapse. If the file changes after you view the file, it will be unmarked as viewed.


On the pull request, click  Files changed.

Files Changed tab
On the right of the header of the file you've finished reviewing, select Viewed.


Viewed checkbox
Submitting your review
After you've finished reviewing all the files you want in the pull request, submit your review.

On the pull request, click  Files changed.

Files Changed tab
Above the changed code, click Review changes.

Review changes button
Type a comment summarizing your feedback on the proposed changes.

Review summary comment window
Select the type of review you'd like to leave:

Radio buttons with review options

Select Comment to leave general feedback without explicitly approving the changes or requesting additional changes.

Select Approve to submit your feedback and approve merging the changes proposed in the pull request.

Select Request changes to submit feedback that must be addressed before the pull request can be merged.
Click Submit review.

Tips:

If required reviews are enabled and a collaborator with write, admin, or owner access to the repository submits a review requesting changes, the pull request cannot be merged until the same collaborator submits another review approving the changes in the pull request.


Repository owners and administrators can merge a pull request even if it hasn't received an approving review, or if a reviewer who requested changes has left the organization or is unavailable.


If both required reviews and stale review dismissal are enabled and a code-modifying commit is pushed to the branch of an approved pull request, the approval is dismissed.
The pull request must be reviewed and approved again before it can be merged.


When several open pull requests each have a head branch pointing to the same commit, you won’t be able to merge them if one or both have a pending or rejected review.
