https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/making-a-pull-request




---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---

#### Example
The example below demonstrates how pull requests can be used in the Forking Workflow.

It is equally applicable to developers working in small teams and to a third-party developer contributing to an open source project.






In the example, Mary is a developer, and John is the project maintainer.
Both of them have their own public repositories, and John’s contains the official project.







#### 1. Mary forks the official project
Pull Requests: Fork the project


To start working in the project, Mary first needs to fork John’s  repository.






She can do this by signing in to Github(if she don't have an account), navigating to John’s repository, and clicking the Fork button.





<!-- Pull Request: Fork in repository -->


In a few seconds/minutes she will have a server-side copy of the project.

---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---


Before Mary forked a GitHub repository

2. Mary clones her GitHub repository


<!-- Pull Request: Clone the GitHub repo -->


Next, Mary needs to clone the GitHub repository that she just forked.
This will give her a working copy of the project on her local machine.
She can do this by running the following command:


`git clone https://user@host/user/repo.git`



Keep in mind that `git clone` automatically creates an origin remote that points back to Mary’s forked repository.
Not to an official repository


At next part we'll talk about making code changes and what Mary will do next

---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---


Before Mary forked a GitHub repository and cloned it locally

3. Mary develops a new feature
<!-- Pull Requests: develop a new feature -->

Before she starts writing any code, Mary needs to create a new branch for her feature.
This branch is what she will use as the source branch of the pull request.

`git checkout -b some-feature`
**# Edit some code**
`git commit -a -m "Add first draft of some feature"`

Mary can use as many commits as she needs to create the feature.

And, if the feature’s history is messier than she would like, she can use an interactive rebase to remove or squash unnecessary commits.

For larger projects, cleaning up a feature’s history makes it much easier for the project maintainer to see what’s going on in the pull request.



---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---


Before Mary have local GitHub repository and make some code changes at her PC


4. Mary pushes the feature to her repository
<!-- Pull Requests: Push feature to repository -->
After her feature is complete, Mary pushes the feature branch to her own repository (not the official repository) with a simple `git push`:


`git push origin some-branch`
This makes her changes available to the project maintainer (or any collaborators who might need access to them).




---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---

Before Mary push her code changes at GitHub

#### 5. Mary creates the pull request
<!-- Pull Request: Create Pull Request -->



After GitHub has her feature branch, Mary can create the pull request through her GitHub account by navigating to her forked repository and clicking the `Pull request` button.





The resulting form automatically sets Mary’s repository as the source repository, and it asks her to specify the source branch, the destination repository, and the destination branch.

Mary wants to merge her feature into the main codebase, so a) the source branch is her feature branch
b) the destination repository is John’s public repository
c) the destination branch is master in John's public repository.

She’ll also need to provide a title and description for the pull request.

If there are other people who need to approve the code besides John, she can add them in the Reviewers sidebar.





<!-- Pull Request: github -->



After she creates the pull request, a notification will be sent to John via his GitHub feed and (optionally) via email.


---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---

Before Mary created a Pull Request with her changes, located at forked feature branch

6. John reviews the pull request
<!-- Pull Request: GitHub pull requests -->
John can access all of the pull requests people have filed by clicking on the Pull request tab in his own repository.

Clicking on Mary’s pull request will show him a description of the pull request, the feature’s commit history, and a diff of all the changes it contains.






If he thinks the feature is ready to merge into the project, all he has to do is hit the **Merge button** to approve the pull request and merge Mary’s feature into his `master` branch.

But, for this example, let’s say John found a small bug in Mary’s code, and needs her to fix it before merging it in.

He can either post a comment to the pull request as a whole, or he can select a specific commit in the feature’s history to comment on.

---
id: s3a14
title: Example Part1
sidebar_label: Example Part1
---

John is requesting to some changes, before he will merge a pull request into main codebase
<!-- Pull Request: Comment -->

6. Mary adds a follow-up commit

If Mary has any questions about the feedback, she can respond inside of the pull request, treating it as a discussion forum for her feature.






To correct the error, Mary adds another commit to her feature branch and pushes it to her GitHub repository, just like she did the first time around.


This commit is automatically added to the original pull request, and John can review the changes again, right next to his original comment.


---


7. John accepts the pull request
Finally, John accepts the changes, merges the feature branch into master, and closes the pull request.

The feature is now integrated into the project, and any other developers working on it can pull it into their own local repositories using the standard `git pull` command.
