
---
id: s2c3
title: Git merge Part2
sidebar_label: Git merge Part2
---

#### How it works
Git flow workflow - Historical Branches
Develop and Master Branches
Instead of a single master branch, this workflow uses two branches to record the history of the project.
The master branch stores the official release history, and the develop branch serves as an integration branch for features.
It's also convenient to tag all commits in the master branch with a version number.




The first step is to complement the default master with a develop branch.
A simple way to do this is for one developer to create an empty develop branch locally and push it to the server:

```
git branch develop
git push -u origin develop
```

This branch will contain the complete history of the project, whereas master will contain an abridged version. Other developers should now clone the central repository and create a tracking branch for develop.


When using the git-flow extension library, executing `git flow init` on an existing repo will create the develop branch:



```
$ git flow init
```

Initialized empty Git repository in ~/project/.git/

No branches exist yet. Base branches must be created now.
Branch name for production releases: [master]
Branch name for "next release" development: [develop]



How to name your supporting branch prefixes?
Feature branches? [feature/]
Release branches? [release/]
Hotfix branches? [hotfix/]
Support branches? [support/]
Version tag prefix? []


`$ git branch`
* develop
 master
