---
id:
title:
sidebar_label:
---


Oops… I did it again


This command is for when everything has gone wrong.

When you have copy-pasted one too many solutions from Stack Overflow and your repo is in a worse state than it was when you started.

We have all been there.

`git reflog` shows you a list of all the things you've done.

It then allows you to use Git's magical time-traveling skills to go back to any point in the past.

I should note, this is a last resort thing and should not be used lightly. To get this list, type:
`git reflog`

Every step we took, every move we made, Git was watching us. Running that on our project gives us this:


3ff8691 (HEAD -> feature-branch) HEAD@{0}: Branch: renamed refs/heads/feature-brunch to refs/heads/feature-branch
3ff8691 (HEAD -> feature-branch) HEAD@{2}: checkout: moving from master to feature-brunch
2b7e508 (master) HEAD@{3}: reset: moving to HEAD~
3ff8691 (HEAD -> feature-branch) HEAD@{4}: commit: Adds the client logo
2b7e508 (master) HEAD@{5}: reset: moving to HEAD~1
37a632d HEAD@{6}: commit: Adds the client logo to the project
2b7e508 (master) HEAD@{7}: reset: moving to HEAD
2b7e508 (master) HEAD@{8}: commit (amend): Added contributing info to the site
dfa27a2 HEAD@{9}: reset: moving to HEAD
dfa27a2 HEAD@{10}: commit (amend): Added contributing info to the site
700d0b5 HEAD@{11}: commit: Addded contributing info to the site
efba795 HEAD@{12}: commit (initial): Initial commit


Take note of the left-most column, as this is the index. If you want to go back to any point in the history, run the below command, replacing ``{index}`` with that reference, e.g. `dfa27a2`.
`git reset HEAD@{index}``
