---
id: s4s8m7
title: Resolving merge conflicts
sidebar_label: Resolving merge conflicts
---


Even if you can use conflict editor on GitHub i'll advice you to use IDE for conflict management.
Because it will give you more power. For sure, for small quick changes this tool can be useful.

Especially if you lazy like me and want to have a quick turnaround. But it better to understand a common way to solving merge conflicts.

Especially when we have so many great tools that is fine tailored for developers.

I'm using Atom editor right now, because it was made by GitHub team and have nice features to work especially with GitHub.


https://blog.atom.io/2017/05/16/git-and-github-integration-comes-to-atom.html

github-package-github

957cbf38-408b-11e7-9110-9abf8ff5ecd4


#### Resolve conflicts

Sometimes there can be conflicts when trying to merge.

Files that have merge conflicts will show up in the "Merge Conflicts" list.

Click on a file to open the editor.

There you can resolve the conflict by picking a version or make further edits.

Once done, stage the file and commit.

github-resolve-conflicts

29078257-d206cd22-7c27-11e7-9fd8-b50f42246ac7

---


> There is also a great comment from cool developer that i'm following:

> I feel that this is a simple and solid approach that's often overlooked:

> 1. Commit your code when anything is worth saving.
> 2. Do not push it yet. Instead, 'git pull origin master'.
> 3. If there is an existing conflict, it should be minor. Resolve it.
> 4. Then, commit with -m 'Resolved merge conflict'.
> 5. Then - again - 'git pull origin master' to guarantee you have the latest.
> 6. Rinse, repeat steps 3-5 until you get a clean pull.
> 7. Push your branch.

> No matter how long the life of your branch is, it's now being bookmarked with local commits, and then merged with origin/master to avoid a future conflict (aka trainwreck.)

> In my experience, Atom (Merge Conflict/Split Diff) and VS Code (GitLens) have nice packages/extensions for Git in general. I would always advise learning git via CLI vs a GUI, since pressing a button is way different from typing commands with the intention of accomplishing something specific.
