---
id: s
title:
sidebar_label:
---

## Rebase and merge your pull request commits

When you select the `Rebase and merge` option on a pull request on GitHub, all commits from the topic branch (or head branch) are added onto the base branch individually without a merge commit. Pull requests with rebased commits are merged using the `fast-forward` option.

To rebase and merge pull requests, you must have **write permissions** in the repository, and the repository must **allow rebase merging**.

The rebase and merge behavior on GitHub deviates slightly from `git rebase`.
Rebase and merge on GitHub will always update the committer information and create new commit SHAs, whereas `git rebase` outside of GitHub does not change the committer information when the rebase happens on top of an ancestor commit.

For more information about `git rebase`, see the "Git rebase" chapter from the Pro Git book.

You aren't able to automatically rebase and merge on GitHub when:
- The pull request has merge conflicts.

- Rebasing the commits from the base branch into the head branch runs into conflicts.

- Rebasing the commits is considered "unsafe," such as when a rebase is possible without merge conflicts but would produce a different result than a merge would.

If you still want to rebase the commits but can't rebase and merge automatically on GitHub you must:

- Rebase the topic branch (or head branch) onto the base branch locally on the command line
- Resolve any merge conflicts on the command line.
- Force-push the rebased commits to the pull request's topic branch (or remote head branch).

Anyone with write permissions in the repository, can then `merge the changes` using the rebase and merge button on GitHub.
