---
id: s3stories4
title: Story 3
sidebar_label:
---


**Flow for when I am familiar with the code**

### The Why

- Understanding the the reason for the changes.
Was this a bug? Was this a feature request?

a. **Bug** - Does this change fix the bug? Does it introduce any other possible bugs?

b. **Feature Request** - Look at the corresponding JIRA ticket to ensure that all parts of the feature request are complete.

**Logic** - Dig into the logic and ensure that it all works like it should. Unless the logic is extremely complex, I usually will not pull a branch down and test it myself. We have a pretty comprehensive test suite and if there are good tests written for the new code its usually unnecessary to test manually unless its a big feature which will go through Q/A.

**Performance** - Are there any unnecessary MySQL queries? Are indexes in place where they should be? How will this code perform when executed a million times? How will this code affect our databases?

**Edge Cases** - Since becoming a Site Reliability Engineer, I feel like a lot of my work deals with edge cases. Code works 99% of the time, but if given this scenario, it breaks. I like to take a step back and look at the big picture for PR. How will this interact with other moving pieces of the code?

**Code style and cleanliness** - Are there bits that could be refactored to be more readable or more reusable? Are any variables not quite clear based on their naming?

**When the PR deals with code I am unfamiliar with**
**ASK QUESTIONS!** - I cannot tell you how valuable it can be when someone asks you questions about a PR.

At my previous job, people was shy to review my pull requests.

Since I wanted my code reviewed I started to tell people to just ask me questions.

Have me explain the parts you don't get.

By explaining how things worked, half of the time I would find the bugs myself.

Plus, if you ask questions then you become more familiar with the code yourself.