---
id: s3review1
title: Reviewing proposed changes in a pull request
sidebar_label: Reviewing proposed changes in a pull request
---


In a pull request, you can review and discuss commits, changed files, and the differences (or `"diff"`) between the files in the base and compare branches.

In this slides section we'll talk about:
- Reviewing pull requests
- Starting a review
- Marking a file as viewed
- Submitting your review




----------



--------------


#### Starting a review
1. Under your repository name, click  `Pull requests`.


#### Issues and pull requests tab selection
[IMG]
repo-tabs-pull-requests

2. In the list of pull requests, click the pull request you'd like to review.


3. On the pull request, click  `Files changed`.

[IMG]
#### Files Changed tab
pull-request-tabs-changed-files


4. Hover over the line of code where you'd like to add a comment, and click the blue comment icon.


#### Blue comment icon
[IMG]
hover-comment-icon (1)

5. In the comment field, type your comment.


#### Comment field
[IMG]
comment-field (1)


6. Optionally, to suggest a specific change to the line, click `Add comment button`, then edit the text within the suggestion block.


#### Suggestion block
[IMG]
suggestion-block

7. When you're done, click `Start a review`.
If you have already started a review, you can click `Add review comment`.


#### Start a review button
[IMG]
start-a-review-button

8. Before you submit your review, your line comments are pending and only visible to you.

You can edit pending comments anytime before you submit your review.






---------




To cancel a pending review, including all of its pending comments, scroll down to the end of the timeline on the `Conversation` tab, then click `Cancel review`.


cancel-review-button

--------------





**Marking a file as viewed**

After you finish reviewing a file, you can mark the file as viewed, and the file will collapse.

If the file changes after you view the file, it will be unmarked as viewed.



1. On the pull request, click  `Files changed`.

#### Files Changed tab
[IMG]
pull-request-tabs-changed-files (1)

2. On the right of the header of the file you've finished reviewing, select `Viewed`.



Viewed checkbox
[IMG]
viewed-checkbox


------------

## Submitting your review

After you've finished reviewing all the files you want in the pull request, submit your review.


1. On the pull request, click  `Files changed`.


#### Files Changed tab
[IMG]
pull-request-tabs-changed-files (2)

2. Above the changed code, click `Review changes`.



#### Review changes button
[IMG]
review-changes-button


3. Type a comment summarizing your feedback on the proposed changes.



#### Review summary comment window
[IMG]
review-summary-comment-window

4. Select the type of review you'd like to leave:



Radio buttons with review options
[IMG]
pull-request-review-statuses



5. Pick review type that you want to leave.

A. Select `Comment` to leave general feedback without explicitly approving the changes or requesting additional changes.



B. Select `Approve` to submit your feedback and approve merging the changes proposed in the pull request.



C. Select `Request changes` to submit feedback that must be addressed before the pull request can be merged.


pull-request-review-statuses (1)

6. Click `Submit review`.






-----------




Notes:


A. If required reviews are enabled and a collaborator with write, admin, or owner access to the repository submits a review requesting changes, the pull request cannot be merged until the same collaborator submits another review approving the changes in the pull request.






B. Repository owners and administrators can merge a pull request even if it hasn't received an approving review, or if a reviewer who requested changes has left the organization or is unavailable.


C. If both required reviews and stale review dismissal are enabled and a code-modifying commit is pushed to the branch of an approved pull request, the approval is dismissed.

The pull request must be reviewed and approved again before it can be merged.



D. When several open pull requests each have a head branch pointing to the same commit, you won’t be able to merge them if one or both have a pending or rejected review.
