
------------


#### How to Create a Single Pull Request Template in GitHub

If your project repository is on GitHub, the name of the template and where it’s located in your repository matters a lot. The template created as a Markdown file should be named `PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` by default and placed in either the project’s root folder or `.github` directory.

Create a Markdown file, name it `PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`, and place it in the project’s root folder.

Pull-Request-Template-GitHub

Or, create a directory, name it .github, and place the Markdown file in this folder.

Pull-Request-Template-Markdown

**NOTE: Make sure to place the Markdown file within one of the previously mentioned locations and save and merge it with the same name.**

Now, when you create a new pull request, you will see the template content automatically loaded into the description field as shown in the following image.

Open-Pull-Request-Template-Update-Index-768x754




#### How to Create Multiple Pull Request Templates in GitHub

It wouldn’t be sensible to use the same description template for different categories of pull requests. For example, you may need to initiate a pull request for submitting the code changes of a newly implemented feature, a simple bug fix, documentation, or any kind of configuration work. It would be best for each of these pull request links to load and pre-populate different template contents in the description fields based on the submitted pull request category.

To make use of different templates, you must first create multiple template files and save them as separate Markdown files in your repository, as explained in the following steps:

1. Create a folder named `PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE` and place it within either the root directory or the directory named `.github`.

2. Create multiple template Markdown files and place them all in the folder `PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE`.

**NOTE: The Markdown files created in this process can be named as you choose, but the folder mentioned in the first step must have the name PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.**

Pull-Request-Template-Bug

Open-Pull-Request-Feature-Template


If you do have multiple template files in GitHub, you will always need to manually navigate to the URL of the specific Markdown file you want to pre-populate in the pull request form.




For example, I’m creating a Markdown file and naming it `bug-template.md`.

I place it in the `PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE` folder of my main repository.

When I want to push some changes into this main repository, I will initiate a new pull request.

To pre-populate my pull request form with the content of the `bug-template.md` file, I need to navigate to the URL by passing an additional template parameter:

https://github.com/Scheduler_Project/compare/master…Test_branch?expand=1&**template=bug-template.md**

Here, **Scheduler-Project** refers to the name of my main repository and I’m trying to merge the code changes from the **Test_branch** into my **master** branch. At the end of the URL, there’s **template=bug-template.md** to pre-populate the content of the **bug-template.md** file into my pull request form.

Now, after making these URL changes, you can see the description content being loaded in the pull request form as follows.

Open-Pull-Request-URL-800x785

You can edit the previous description with relevant details and click the `Create pull request` button, which will open your submitted pull request page as follows.

page-not-responding-768x792



GitHub provide a better way to create predefined templates for pull requests. The template options offered allowing developers to share accurate details of their proposed code changes at the start of the review process.

Providing clearer code descriptions makes the code review process easier, which in turn helps achieve better code quality and limits the risks of unnoticed mistakes.

Once you take the time to create pull request templates in your repo, you and your team can utilize them on an ongoing basis:
- saving you time
- decreasing context switching
- encouraging consistency
- increasing productivity.
