---
id: s5e14
title:
sidebar_label:
---


git diff                    # Show changes current working directory (not yet staged)
git diff --cached           # Show changes currently staged for commit



If you can recall, Git has an `index` between local repository and your working directory. So most of Git commands can either refer to `index` or the local repo. When you say **HEAD** in your Git command, it refers the `local repo`.

```
//  compare the working directory with local repository.
git diff HEAD [filename]

// compare the working directory with index.
git diff [filename]

// compare the index with local repository.
git diff --cached [filename]
```
---

You can also compare files between two different commits. Every commit in Git has a commit id which you can get when you give git log. Then you can use the commit id if diff command like this.

    `git diff 7eb2..e03 812...a3f35`

    ---

    You can compare not just a single file, but all your changes at once. If you made changes in many files, just don’t mention any file name in the diff command which will diff all the changed files.
```
    // compares working directory with index,
    // i.e. shows the changes that are not staged yet.
    git diff

    // compares working directory with local repository.
    // shows the list of changes after your last commit.
    git diff HEAD

    // compares index with local repository.
    // shows the diff between your last commit and changes to be committed next.
    git diff --cached
    ```
----


#### Comparing branches

Comparing two branches
Branches are compared like all other ref inputs to git diff

`git diff branch1..other-feature-branch`

This example introduces the dot operator. The two dots in this example indicate the diff input is the tips of both branches. The same effect happens if the dots are omitted and a space is used between the branches. Additionally, there is a three dot operator:


`git diff branch1...other-feature-branch`

The three dot operator initiates the diff by changing the first input parameter `branch1`. It changes `branch1` into a ref of the shared common ancestor commit between the two diff inputs, the shared ancestor of `branch1` and `other-feature-branch`. The last parameter input parameter remains unchanged as the tip of `other-feature-branch`.


#### Comparing files from two branches
To compare a specific file across branches, pass in the path of the file as the third argument to git diff

`git diff master new_branch ./diff_test.txt`
