---
id: s3review10
title: About required reviews for pull requests
sidebar_label: About required reviews for pull requests
---


Protected branches are available in public and private repositories on GitHub

#### Required reviews ensure that pull requests have a specific number of approving reviews before collaborators can make changes to a protected branch.

If you've enforced branch protections in your repository, you can set up required reviews. It can be done at repository settings. Usually it's a choice of Team Leader that want to have more clear coding workflow inside of the team.

Repository administrators can require that all pull requests receive a specific number of approving reviews from people with `write` or `admin` permissions in the repository or from a designated code owner before they're merged into a protected branch.

When required reviews are enabled, anyone with access to the repository can approve changes in a pull request. However, you won't be able to merge your pull request until the required number of reviewers with `write` or `admin` permissions in the repository approve your pull request's changes in their review.

If review is required from a designated code owner and the pull request affects code that has a designated owner, approval from that owner is required.

If a person with admin permissions chooses the Request changes option in a review, then that person must approve the pull request before it can be merged. If a reviewer who requests changes on a pull request isn't available, anyone with `admin` or `write` permission for the repository can dismiss the blocking review.

**Note: Repository admins can restrict the ability to dismiss pull request reviews to specific people or teams.**

If you push a code-modifying commit to the branch of an approved pull request, the approval may be dismissed if repository admins have set up `stale review dismissals`. This doesn't apply if you push non-code-modifying commits, like merging the `base branch` into your pull request's branch.

Unless required reviews have been set up to include repository admins, people with `admin` permissions can merge a pull request regardless of reviews from other admins.


After all required reviewers have approved a pull request, you won't be able to merge it if there are other open pull requests with pending or rejected reviews and those pull requests have a head branch pointing to the same commit. Someone with `write` or `admin` permissions will need to approve or dismiss the blocking review on the other pull requests before you can merge.

You can't merge a pull request into a protected branch until someone with `write` or `admin` permissions approves it. If there are pending or rejected reviews, you'll receive an error message:

```
remote: error: GH006: Protected branch update failed for refs/heads/master.

remote: error: Changes have been requested.
```



https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-required-reviews-for-pull-requests

